.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii featsel.1
.\"
.TH FEATSEL 1 "MARCH 2010" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
featsel \- a flexible feature selection program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B featsel [-h] [-f
.I input-file-name
.B ]
.B [ -c 
.I cost-function-name
.B ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B featsel
receives a set
.B S 
of objects, values associated with each 
of them, a cost function 
.B c
with subsets of S as domain
and real numbers as image, and searches for a subset 
X in S such as c(X) is minimum (i.e., there are no 
Y in S, such as c(Y) < c(X)). 
The minima subsets found are printed into the standard
output.
The featsel program may use as search algorithm an
implementation of the U-Curve-Search (UCS), and as the
cost function the hamming distance and the absolute sum.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-a algorithm-name"
Selects the
.I algorithm-name
as the algorithm used in the search. The default value is 
.I ucs
(U-Curve Search); other valid names are
.I ubb
(U-Curve Branch and Bound),
.I pfs
(Poset Forest Search),
.I sffs
(Sequential Forward Floating Selection),
.I sfs
(Sequential Forward Selection), and
.I es
(Exhaustive Search).
.IP "-c cost-function-name"
Selects the
.I cost-function-name
as the cost function of the search. The default value is 
.I abs_sum;
other valid names are 
.I hamming_distance,
.I mce 
(Mean Conditional Entropy for W-operator design),
.I explicit 
(cost function values explicitly defined from file),
.I mean_abs_sum.
.IP "-f input-file-name"
Uses as instance either a XML or a DAT file 
.I input-file-name,
containing the elements of the set, their names and values.
.IP -h
Displays this help screen.
.IP "-m number-of-minima"
The number of minima to be showed in the standard output. It
should be and integer grater than zero, and the default value
is 1.
.IP "-n number-of-elements"
If the option -f is not used, creates a random set with
.I number-of-elements
elements with a single value. It should be an integer
greater than zero. The default value is 3.
.IP "-r range"
If the option -f is not used, creates the elements of
the random set with a single value greater or equal than
zero and less than
.I range.
The default value is 1000.
.IP -s
Stores all the visited subsets into the file called
.I visited.log
.IP "-t1 threshold"
Set a
.I threshold
value that ends the execution if a value less or equal to
it is computed by the cost function. Used in the first step
(pre-processing) of a heuristic procedure.
.IP "-t2 max-number-of-calls-of-cost-function"
Set a
.I max-number-of-calls-of-cost-function
value that ends the execution if the cost function is computed
that number of times. It is used in the second step of a
heuristic procedure.


.SH FILES
.I etc/featsel.conf
.RS
The program configuration file (not implemented yet).
.RE
.I etc/costfunc.conf
.RS
Configuration of the cost function lexical/syntactic analyzer (not implemented yet).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP PATH
May be useful to add the full pathname of the directory where the featsel binary
is located. The configuration files must be at the same directory of the binary.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr:
.RE
Bad magic number.
.RS
The input file does not look like a XML file.
.RE
Bad cost.
.RS
.B "cost-function-name"
given is not a valid one.
.SH BUGS
XML parsing should be improved.
.SH AUTHOR
Marcelo S. Reis < msreis at ime dot usp dot br>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR featsel (1)
